# UFPAFaults

UFPAFaults is a public labeled dataset with short-circuit events, which allows to compare algorithms and reproduce results over different sites. It is currently in its fifth version, called UFPAFaults5

The UFPAFaults5 dataset is composed by 27500 short- circuit faults, organized into five sets of 100, 200, ..., 1000 faults each. The division into these sets is to facilitate obtaining sample complexity curves, where one observes how the per- formance varies with the number of training examples. Each fault corresponds to three voltage and three current waveforms stored as binary files with the associated label file. The voltage and current waveforms generated by the ATP simulations had a sampling period equal to 0.25 microseconds, corresponding to a sampling frequency fs = 40 kHz.

All the parameters for each fault simulation were randomly generated. The values of all four resistances were obtained as independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) samples drawn from a uniform pdf U(0.1,10), where the notation U(a,b) indicates a support of [a,b]. In other words, the resistances varied uniformly from 0.1 to 10 Ohms. The time the fault starts and its duration (both in seconds) were drawn from U(0.1,0.9) and U(0.07,0.5), respectively. The electric circuit used to create UFPAFaults5 models a real 500 kV system from a Brazilian company and has three Z-T lines with lengths 18.5, 151.5 and 325 km. It was assumed that the fault could occur with the same probability at any of these three lines. The fault location was drawn from U (2, 98) (percentage of the total line length). For example, assuming the faulty line has 18.5 km and the location is 10%, i.e., a fault at 1.85 km from the reference (left) side is simulated by setting the two respective Z-T lines to have 1.85 km and 16.65 km (their total length must always coincide with the length of the original line)

